Now we're talking to Diane Crescent.
Diane, what's her official title, might I ask?
Well, I've got two.
I've got Director for Preservation, and I'm also the Acting Director for Public Service Collections.
And what does that mean?
That means all of the reading rooms where people come to use collections and all of the divisions that support acquiring, cataloging, serving, preserving the collections are all under me.
with a couple of exceptions.
The rare books?
Rare books, prints and photographs, manuscripts, geography and map, motion picture.
The only ones that are not are the area studies divisions, and there are four of those, European, Asian, those kinds of things, and the law library, that's a separate organization.
Are you a librarian?
Yes.
Did you go to library school?
Yes, I did.
I went to Catholic University, and I'm currently adjunct faculty on their library school staff.
So they still have a library school?
They still have a library school.
It's alive and well.
It's here in Washington?
I think because we're in the Washington area and there are so many cultural institutions, it's still, I think, a thriving program.
There's also a program at the University of Maryland.
in College Park Library School.
Well, I'd like to get a census just to make library schools that are left.
Well, there are fewer.
I don't know offhand.
I mean the big one is like Columbia.
Which is history.
Yeah, closed.
And I think the University of Chicago closed it.
Illinois, I mean a lot of places closed them.
And of course, something like Berkeley is now something else.
Right.
You know, and the profession continues to sort of change.
There's less of an emphasis probably on traditional skills like cataloging and more of an emphasis on database searching, information management through networked environments and acquiring software and
Probably a very heavy emphasis on it.
Yeah, I mean, that's increasingly.
So, I mean, there's still room for the traditional approaches, but it's in a different context.
I am looking at libraries and the whole concept of libraries, and just coincidentally, we walked in and here's a book called I Want to Be a Librarian, over for very early readers, 1960, which makes it 37 years old.
And you were mentioning how stereotypical it is.
Every librarian in here is a woman with some bun in the hair.
Right, the bun in the hair.
She didn't have the tissue in her sleeve, but I'm sure that that would have, if they'd made the film version, it would have been that.
She would have been played by June Lockhart.
You mentioned that you found this on the truck.
What truck were we found?
We have a selection office, and maybe if we have time,
There are four sort of critical areas of the library.
There's acquisitions, cataloging, preservation, and then kind of the reference service.
Typically those were, in the past, stand-alone departments.
They're all now contained under one department called Library Services.
But this is kind of the core of activities of the Library of Congress.
So there's a selection office, materials that come into the library
by copyright, sometimes by purchase or gift or exchange, are reexamined by selecting officers to make sure that they're within scope.
So this was on a truck of, I believe, copyright deposit material.
Probably the library looked at it when it was first published because there's a mandatory deposit requirement.
books published in the United States get offered to the Library of Congress.
Are they required to give you?
Correct.
They're required to give us, whether we select them for our collections or not, depends on whether it's in scope for our collections.
Just about everything is, but there are some broad categories like clinical medicine, technical agriculture, for example, which aren't.
So that book probably came in in 1960 originally, and we looked at it and said, well,
Yeah, yes, we want it, but we only want one copy, or yes, we want it, and we want two copies, or no, we don't.
And then for 37 years, it's been held as a copyright deposit, separate and distinct from the library's collections.
So this was part of a bunch of materials that were children's literature, biographies, and material like this that were, I think, up for re-examining.
I think we should keep as much of this as possible.
I happened to be in there for another reason, and there it was.
I was struck by so many familiar titles on the truck that I remember reading when I was in elementary school.
These were all children's books.
Johnny Tremaine, Rifles for Wadey,
You know, Louisa May Alcott, girl author, you know, that whole Bob's Merrill series of biographies for children that I devoured when I was, you know, eight and nine and ten.
So, yeah, those kinds of things.
And what we would do probably is look at that truck and compare it against what's already in our collections and whether we still had the first copy or whether it's somehow been lost or, you know, destroyed or ravaged by time or whatever and use this as a replacement, that kind of thing.
So somebody would check
to indicate whether or not there is still a first copy.
But is it possible that, you know, this has gone into the selection room, put on the truck, so to speak?
Is it possible that this is the last copy?
Sure.
So you do get rid of, occasionally, last copies?
No.
Let me rephrase that.
We don't get rid of anything
Unless it's... Or deaccession?
We deaccession, like textbooks, superseded editions.
Twenty-five editions of an accounting textbook will keep one copy of each preceding one, as opposed to two.
Typically, English language publications, domestic publications, we keep two copies.
Major trade publications.
If, for some reason...
the selection office and the recommending officers determine that we only need one copy, then we keep one copy.
If we go to the shelf looking for the one copy that our bibliographic records claim we should still have and it's not there, it's misplaced, it's lost, maybe it was stolen, you know, those kinds of things.
But it rarely is that we decided we didn't want it anymore.
I mean, typically when things are collected, they're retained for the permanent collections, and they're in the permanent collections forever.
Are there criteria?
Yes.
Published, printed guidelines that very strictly define the principles you apply?
They're called collections policy statements.
Will this be something I can get a copy of?
Yes.
They're in hard copy up to a certain date.
I've got a notebook here.
I don't know how current it is, but now we put them online.
Oh good.
I'm getting into this, and I'm going to make it readable for the general reason.
Well, I hope you do.
I think it's really interesting.
I think it's fascinating.
It's part of the library that a lot of people don't often focus on, and the acquisitions and how we take care of things, to me, are sort of the heart of what we're all about.
So I don't have to go get a card copy of this?
No, I don't think so.
Actually, you may have that.
You mean you're going to let me in?
You could have it, yeah.
Oh, you're going to let me have it.
Yes, you may have it, and that's for starters.
That's wonderful.
And then I think— Look at how my face brightens.
I know.
I love that.
Well, this is great.
This will work.
And then there's, on the library's homepage— Which is www.loc?
Actually, it's not even www.http colon, two backflashes, lcweb.loc.gov.
And somewhere, when we're done talking, I want to show you, you can access the
Yeah, the collection's policy statements.
All of the recommending officers are routinely asked to revise and update their series.
We have them on all formats.
We have about 25 of them currently in a state of review.
Either the draft has been completed and it's being circulated for discussion and comment, or it's about to be reissued.
So it's really incumbent upon the recommending officer to work with our collections policy staff on making sure that the statements are current.
So those who think of their, in America or in the world, that there's always going to be a deposit copy
at the Library of Proverbs, that's really not necessarily the case, is it?
That's correct.
I mean, if we selected something for our collections, we will keep it forever, unless... We will probably keep at least one copy forever.
I explain situations like textbooks.
We will not keep multiple copies of superseded editions.
For one thing, we run out of shelf space.
But for copyright material, if it just was deposited with the copyright, and we said, well, this is interesting, but not interesting enough to, you know...
acquire, catalog, preserve, you know, da-da-da, then it's only kept in the copyright office for a certain period of time, and that's subject to their laws.
I think when they're ready to unload a batch of material, it's offered again, or can be offered again, to the library to re-examine, to make sure that we're not missing an opportunity to add something back into our collections that was lost through the years, or borrowed and never returned, or
Something like that.
See, there's no way that you could make such determinations based on use the way many other libraries do, where they're trying to say, for instance, at some places, if a book's not used within five years, which is a preposterous figure, and you're seeing this now, by the way, that book's in trouble.
And, you know, extremists maybe even, and we're in the chance at the very least of being sent off to an, if it's lucky, an off-site,
Right.
A storage facility, but also perhaps even going away.
But now you say having been selected for a collection, once the decision is made to keep a book, is that a decision forever?
Mm-hmm.
Or does somebody, do we have, or is it like parole?
You know, you come up every five or ten years for another hearing.
No, it's essentially forever.
I mean, there might be instances where...
We look again at the collections policy statement, which is the guiding principle for collecting in a particular area, and maybe decide, oh, we need to be more restrictive or we're duplicating what National Library of Medicine is doing or National Agriculture Library.
There have been a couple of instances where we have decided not to collect maybe any more in an area or weed it back to maybe one set for a periodical as opposed to multiple sets.
But those are the two areas that are obvious because there are other national libraries.
Medicine, what was the other one?
National Agriculture Library.
And they're both here in Washington?
Correct.
One's in Beltsville, Maryland, and the other's in Bethesda.
And they are the repositories for clinical medicine and technical agriculture.
We have, you know, good collections in those areas, but we aren't the premier collections.
I think your collection is pretty spectacular.
Well, they are.
I'm speaking of what's supposed to happen in terms of not duplicating what they have.
Roughly, how many objects fall within your preview, would you say?
Mine?
Yeah.
Probably close to 80 or 90 million.
80 or 90 million.
Right.
There are...
14 million items in the general collections.
That's the bound book and periodical.
That's here in Washington.
Oh, yeah, that's here in Washington.
All of this is here in Washington.
Well, the 90 billion is not here in Washington.
Sure.
Really?
Washington and Landover, Maryland.
Landover, okay.
I thought we were talking specifically about that.
No, these three buildings...
Yeah, it's probably three quarters of it is here.
There are 111 million plus items in the whole of the library's collections, but that includes all of the photographs and manuscripts and everything else.
Maps.
But they're all under my administration.
The only things that aren't are the collections in the law library.
I don't know what their number count is.
And anything...
from, oh, vernacular languages in Asian and African and Middle East, because as I said, the area studies divisions report to someone else.
I was out in San Francisco last weekend at the city library.
I'm looking at national libraries totally apart from institutional libraries and public libraries.
to some extent private libraries, which I've already done in my other book.
Which I have, by the way.
I yanked it from the stacks.
Oh, good.
Oh, there it is.
So there it is, yes.
You didn't see the wonderful dust jackets.
No, we don't keep dust jackets.
Really?
No.
Say that again.
We don't keep dust jackets.
I think that that's a mistake.
That's part of the readable book called Paratexts, which has just been published.
very interesting book.
Well, there's just a whole history of social life and customs that you can get from the dust jackets.
I think for a while the copyright office was retaining them, but I don't know that they still have them anymore.
My knowledge of this goes back some years, but typically we remove the dust jacket and either have it library bound if we don't think that the binding it came with is sufficient enough to withstand use
Or we do as we did with your book, accept the publisher's binding without the dust jacket and slap a label on it.
Is there any way to indicate use on this?
The circuit, yes, the loan division could track use on that.
But there's nothing internal?
No, there's nothing, like in public libraries where they have the stamps so you can see how many.
Well, I did interview with Tilly Olsen, the writer, last week.
And she had taken my book out of the library, and she said, look, it's children.
You've been withdrawn 25 times.
I was thrilled.
You were thrilled.
Exactly.
I took a photograph of that card, you know.
Yeah.
We can determine use through our loan circulation records.
And let's see.
We probably kept two copies.
I mean, this is copy one, so it doesn't say copy one, but probably we kept two copies.
Right about that.
Yeah, I'm sure.
Well, I had someone go grab it for me as soon as we confirmed that we were going to chat.
I guess certainly the preservation aspect, what, 111 million objects in the total collections, and you said 80 or 90 million under your supervision.
no way all of these books are going to last forever or 100 years even.
Can we talk about that and then how you went to this particular equation and if there's a program and an agenda and an overriding concern?
I'd like to get into the brittle books and that concept of phase deterioration, which you call something else, I guess.
Right, phase or plan deterioration.
Same thing.
Okay, well, I can start by saying that
Yeah, we have a preservation program that has a binding component, a conservation component, and a reformatting component.
And it's the mission of that program to preserve all of the library's collections.
And that's a very broad statement, and it's intentionally so, because we feel we have an obligation to protect all of the library's collections,
the solution, the means of protection will vary depending on the collection, the material, resources, even availability of certain kinds of solutions.
So typically we employ a phrase that I think was originally associated with the Bauhaus movement in the 20s, but it's fitness for purpose.
Fitness for Purpose.
So we're looking at the solution that best meets the needs of the material, recognizing that we can't do a Rolls Royce treatment for every item in the library's collections.
What time is it?
It's 1.30.
Okay.
Two o'clock, please.
Thanks.
But that we can start by
providing better temperature and humidity controls in the storage areas.
We can teach care and handling techniques to all staff members who handle collections so that they're not inadvertently destroying something in the process of cataloging it or serving it in the reading room, that sort of thing.
We have a conservation division that works
mostly on special collections kinds of materials, manuscript material, top treasure material.
By that I mean the George Washington Diaries or the rough draft of the Declaration of Independence.
Those things are subjected to the highest level of conservation treatment.
And then we have the binding program, which makes sure that all the books going into the collections are bound and in some way protect it.
So we try to have, as I said, this continuum based on the needs and use this maxim of fitness for purpose.
And each year we conduct an annual plan and we survey each of the divisions and talk to them about their top needs.
And then we try to match their needs with how many resources we have available, either in-house
or what we can contract out for and have people actually come in and do some work on collections.
You mentioned fitness for purpose.
So somebody then is going to make a judgment as to the value?
Yeah.
The content?
Yes.
It's a partnership.
I mean, we work very closely with the curators and the subject specialists.
So judgment's arbitrary, perhaps, even in some cases.
Well, it's...
It's arbitrary because it maybe depends on the subject knowledge of the person being consulted, but we typically think that the people who are working here in the Library of Congress are among the most knowledgeable and authoritative in their fields.
So I think what we try not to do is have money drive the process.
Well, we have $100,000, so how are we going to spend it?
It's more based on what are the needs of the collections.
So a couple of years ago, we took a survey.
We just went around and talked to all of the divisions and had them start to suggest priorities for their preservation needs of their collections.
We go to prints and photographs.
What would you most like to see happen?
Well, our poster collection really needs da-da-da-da-da-da.
Our Alfred Wode Civil War drawings really need something.
our daguerreotypes really need, you know, and begin to get kind of what I called at the time a snapshot of what was required and then start building five-year plans based on resources, staff resources, money, and time of the curators to spend working with us to preserve that collection.
I mean, it isn't just us going in and
doing what we need to do, but it's very much a partnership with each of the divisions.
What is the state of the National Collection of Books?
Are you keeping up with it?
Are you losing the battle?
I don't think we're losing the battle, but that program is at a crossroads because
People are kind of waiting to see what kind of impact digital technology will have on keeping the artifact.
To date, in the Library of Congress, we've had, since 1939, a microfilming program.
So historically, when the hard copy, when its useful life was over, a decision was made to
Or not to film it.
Or not to film it, right.
Or to acquire film of it, but in some way, you know, replacing it and reformatting it into another medium, most often microfilm.
Certainly we do that with newspapers.
We throw away our ink print newspapers after we film them, that's correct.
We throw them away.
or we purchase them in film, but we keep them, but so long, I think two years is current.
That might be, yes.
There should be a newspaper collections policy statement, and if it isn't, it would be online, because it was revised in the last two years.
But ink print is not the preservation copy, microfilm is, and probably that will continue.
Because we understand microfilm.
We understand microfilm.
It works.
It's reliable.
It's got longevity.
And the time frame is pretty well understood.
The time frame is understood.
The standards are intact.
And there are archival standards.
There are archival standards.
The U.S.
newspaper program, which has been in existence for a number of years, and operated, coordinated at the Library of Congress by Robert Harriman.
And it's an NEH-funded program.
an attempt to sort of film the nation's newspapers, and there are projects I think going now in all 50 states.
That's an area that I think you should definitely pick up on.
Do it again?
Yeah, it's called the U.S.
Newspaper Project.
Here at LC?
Well, it's managed here at LC.
I'm not mistaken, it's NDH funded.
Okay.
If you get a chance, you should really talk to Robert Harriman.
Robert Harriman, is he here in this building?
Yeah, he's here in this building.
He works in serial records, but he's the program coordinator.
I'll give you his telephone number.
H-A-R-R-I-M-A-N.
His phone number is 5946.
And he's the coordinator of this program.
And as I said, I think all 50 states are now participants.
And he holds
a meeting every spring, which kind of assesses how the program's going and has different people, representatives from the program come in and kind of talk about, you know, he likes to determine how we do it good, you know.
And it's an opportunity for people to learn what's going on in the program in New York State or Iowa or what have you.
And that's been going, I think it's been going for about 20 years.
It was originally
under the preservation program at some point, organizationally it was changed.
And it being newspapers, it's like an offshoot category.
So therefore, I guess, what's important then is preserving the information and not the artifact.
That's definitely the case in newspapers.
A decision has been made that the artifact, the value is really in the content and not
That's right.
And, you know, I have a couple of volumes up here.
These are sort of the typical brittle books.
Oh, wow, okay.
Why don't you explain what we have here?
Well, this is a serial called The Catholic Directory.
It's 1900, and it's... In dreadful shape.
Yeah, I mean, you could not do anything except reformat this.
And I'm not even sure you can because the pages are so broken and splintered that even my touching it, I'm destroying it further.
So we would probably try to borrow a volume from another library if we were interested in filming this whole set because not every volume has been charged.
It means it's been removed from the collection.
And if a reader happened to come in and say, oh, but I have to see the 1900 volume of the Catholic Directory because I'm doing genealogical research or whatever, then we would make it available to them under supervised conditions.
But this was pulled from a bunch of trucks that I have down in the office that begins collating books and getting them ready to be filmed.
I'll bet you that's a pretty well-used book.
Well, it is.
And, you know, this is not an atypical example for our directories' collection.
That's a genealogical... Right.
I mean, they love this stuff.
I mean, we have a huge, huge, huge clientele in genealogists.
We have a wonderful collection.
And then this is not so bad, but it's pretty bad.
This is a Russian text.
It's...
It's a government document.
JX is the classification, and this could not be saved.
Neither one of these volumes could be saved by deacidification technology.
They have to be reformatted because it's just a matter of time before they are completely destroyed through use.
Now, the challenge is how to create the program.
You know, do you go and just kind of canvas the stacks looking for volumes like this and decide that you're going to film them, or do you think about use-driven?
A patron comes in, they want to order something, you go and you retrieve it and you say, oh, God, this is really in bad shape, we really shouldn't let somebody use it.
You know, let's film it and make it available.
We don't really have a mechanism to kind of do filming on demand.
It typically takes a number of weeks at best before something can be filmed.
So if I come in and I ask for this book and somebody goes to fetch it... And said, ooh, gee, we really can't let you use it because it's a mess.
And it's at that point also that you discover... Yes, that's right.
But what if you were to arrive a year later and the thing is really gone?
You have to find another copy of this book.
That's not going to be...
That's right.
No, it isn't.
I mean, our collections are peerless.
And we have had some success in major microfilming projects and being able to fill in gaps in our collections.
But it's very labor-intensive.
It requires a lot of correspondence among institutions.
And we just finished, in fact, a big microfilm project for a periodical called Carriage Monthly.
It's on horse-drawn carriages, I think.
And we had to borrow a lot of volumes and repair them and get them stable enough to be filmed.
So it took us about a year to pull that project together to where we finally had actual film available of that collection.
So it's those kinds of things.
We're not geared up to do kind of the use-driven.
It really has to be kind of planned.
But it's hard to predict what would be, well, you can't predict what would be of value to researchers.
So I'm not satisfied yet that we have the right handle.
Now, do you have the capability, if you decide to copy that, to do that here, or is that something that you would outsource?
No, we have the capability here.
We have an in-house service that was established with Rockefeller Foundation money in 1939.
The initial grant-slash-gift was
to provide patrons copies of things from the library's collections.
And it has become, over time, our in-house photo duplication service.
So we film newspapers in-house, those that we don't otherwise acquire on film.
And we do runs of serials, brittle books.
We also film on demand.
If a patron comes in and wants a copy of
something that isn't otherwise restricted by copyright, you know, we would do that for a fee.
I mean, there's a whole program dedicated to that.
We also have photocopier machines in all of the reading rooms.
So, you know, a patron goes and sort of flops the thing on.
Do you have any problems with copyright people?
No, because it's fair use.
I mean, I assume that they're not copying whole books.
And they supposedly know that they're not supposed to do that.
Yeah, I think each machine has a sign that says, you know, a fair use copyright.
Well, probably.
I am concerned about the copyright.
I am equally concerned about the wear and tear on the volumes.
We've posted, we've made an investment in posting signage that we actually
did through and outside graphic shopping, nice signs that are posted adjacent to photocopy areas, giving tips on the proper handling.
But, you know, we don't police those areas.
I mean, one, if somebody were to take that book and write it every page through a copy, that would really be, that would be a tough, quite an exercise for that book.
That would easily account
It would.
The equivalent of any number of readings, I would say.
No, it would.
And, I mean, I think that typically they're not doing this kind of thing.
They're finding the... The obscure thing.
The obscure thing, the article in a bound periodical, an illustration in something.
Yeah, yeah.
Telephone books.
Especially here, I think, at L.C.
Yeah, telephone books get a lot of photo... I guess it's genealogists and skip tracers.
A friend of mine used to be in the, quote, skip tracing business.
Missing persons.
Yeah.
And directories are big sources of information for those.
Do you keep all the telephones?
We keep all of them.
We do have a lot of them on film now.
And there's something called telephone fiche that's available.
For a number of years, we had a project to film all of our city directories.
But, you know, it's labor-intensive.
I mean, it's a page-by-page collation and examination.
It's click, click, click, click, click.
I think we've done about...
oh, I can't think now, A, through something or other of our states, because we were doing all 50 states, but we started to target major cities, you know, New York, San Francisco, Chicago, Washington, D.C., because it's a huge local interest in that sort of thing.
But, you know, that's an ongoing, we've been doing that for the last 10 years, filming our telephone directors, and then supplementing that filming with, we still get them in hardcopy,
And then we subscribe to phone fish, which is available in the microform reading room.
What are your limitations to preservation?
Money, I suppose, and also equipment.
Now, I mentioned to you that I'm going to Germany, going up to the Leipzig facility.
Right.
We have a splitting machine.
Paper splitting machine, yes.
And I guess this big deacidification thing where they can bring in, you know, pretty good-sized truckloads to the size of this table.
Right.
And they can do it in a mess.
I guess this reflects a commitment on the part of the government to try and preserve everything.
That's right.
We're not doing a similar thing here.
Well, I'd say that the commitment is there, but we haven't quite figured out how many resources it would take to do it.
So I think that's where issues of phased deterioration or planned deterioration come in.
What we try to do here, though, is what I was explaining earlier.
We feel that any response is at least a positive response.
So even if we just make sure that the materials in the stack areas are kept under low temperature and humidity control, and we do that.
I mean, we're constantly checking through uses of hydrothermographs the temperature and humidity of the stacks and making the adjustments accordingly.
That was a huge thing.
that we got going with the architect of the Capitol.
I mean, we're tenants in these buildings.
That's the other complication.
The architect of the Capitol is the governing institution for the maintenance and upkeep of these buildings.
That's correct.
So if we want to keep stack level at, oh, 70 degrees Fahrenheit, 50 degrees relative humidity, we have to work through them to make sure that that's accomplished.
You're tenants.
Correct.
We're tenants.
And that's not a technicality.
No, that's true.
architect of the capital, they change the light bulbs, they maintain the elevators, they, you know, the plumbing, all of the facilities maintenance, the air conditioning, the lights, the temperature of the stacks, the humidity levels, everything is maintained by them.
They have engineers around the clock available too.
you know, manage the building.
Kind of like the British Library up until it's moved now.
They have been always tenants of the British Museum.
Right.
And they're really dealing for the first time of, you know, owning their own building, and it's really quite an exciting adventure for them.
That's right.
So we sort of look at the collection as, you know, some collections will get the high-level conservation treatment because they're
their value merits it.
And I named some kinds of examples, presidential papers, Lincoln's pockets the night he was assassinated, those kinds of things will get that high-level treatment.
Something else, a Catholic directory, maybe it's not quite necessary to preserve the artifact, but preserving the content, so that's where we use the microfilming program.
So that would be microfilmed?
Do you think that would be scanned?
I don't think we're
It depends.
If you just are looking for imaging and not searchable text, well, sure, you could scan it.
But, I mean, the whole point of the directory is to be able to look up an entry.
And I don't think we've quite come to grips yet with the kind of keying.
Come on in.
You can just be speaking to them at 9.30 tomorrow.
I've set up an appointment.
and I was going to get to that.
But, you know, it's sort of like some will get this, and some will get that, and some will only get this, so that everybody gets a little something.
That's our approach.
And it's obviously overwhelming if you think, oh, God, 111 million items.
But we just figure, well, we'll bite off a bit at a time, and we have a plan.
You do have a plan.
We do have a plan.
I mean, we work...
I mentioned a minute ago, we do have an annual plan.
I mean, every year we look at our resources and we go to the divisions and we say, okay, what do you want done?
And over and above that, we're aware of what's happening with all of the collections.
I mean, you know, you kind of have to keep up.
We're also looking and interested in what other libraries are doing.
to look for opportunities for cooperative ventures, cooperative filming projects like the one for Carriage Monthly that I described, or cooperative scanning projects where we're building a virtual collection that everybody can benefit from.
So it sort of depends, again, not just on the resources, but on the material type itself and the decision of a recommending officer and a curator is to sort of
Is this worth it?
Is this worth this level of response?
Do you have an idea, again, a rough idea in numbers?
How many books are at great risk?
Yeah, we do.
It's roughly 1% of 16 million.
So that's 160,000.
Not as nearly as bad as I thought it would be.
Well, the at-risk means it's like this.
Really?
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
So at-risk means very bad.
Well, let's—yeah.
I mean, at-risk really should be a much greater number.
Is at-risk actually beyond— This is what we call a basket case.
I mean, this is—the only thing you can do is immediate aggressive intervention and
As I said, in the case of this volume here, we would probably have to borrow it from another institution in order to preserve our content, because it's just too far away.
But it would be impossible at this state even to go in and attempt deacidification or anything.
Oh, absolutely.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
There is a point of no return, right?
Absolutely, and what we're trying to do now, deacidification, we finally
Did you read the Wall Street Journal article?
There was one a month or so ago.
I did.
Okay.
Are you working with this fellow?
Yeah, Dick Spass.
Is that something worth my looking into?
You know, talk, you're going to this afternoon talk with Ken Harris, who is the in-house, yeah, I did set up a program.
And I should have probably started by saying, well, here's what we're going to do, but I never do that.
Ken Harris will talk to you.
The research chemist we have, Dr. Shahani, who was also I think quoted in the article, he's fractured his foot on the weekend, so I don't know whether he's in today or not.
But Ken can talk about the history.
This started at the Library of Congress deacidification technology, I think back in the 60s, where we developed a process called diethyl zinc.
We patented it, and we were going to go forward.
That was the Fort Detrick stuff, the blow-ups that you, I think, wrote about.
He can talk to you about that.
He wasn't here then, either.
He was at the National Archives.
It's not my intention to embarrass anybody here.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Oh, no, it's fine.
I mean, I really think that— But repairing books can be hazardous to your health.
Well, you know, it kind of can.
It's not just an easy thing to do.
I mean— We also spent twenty-some years in development of something.
We were really careful about it, and there were some mistakes along the way and some to-ing and fro-ing, but we finally have a process.
We're using it.
We're sending real books off to be deacidified.
What is the name of this process?
It's called Bookkeeper, and it's a different kind of technology.
The other one was gas vapor, and this is something else.
The one that has a mishap.
Correct.
Deacidification was finally, I mean, Dazzle Zinc was finally perfected to where it could have been used on a mass level, but the company manufacturing it decided not to continue for business reasons.
That was Axel Chemical, Texas Alkyl out in, I think Houston, but Ken can tell you.
And Bookkeeper sort of
came in unexpectedly with an alternative process, and I think what they're using in Germany is yet again different, and I'm sorry, I can't remember now which one it is.
Ken knows all about the available deacidification technologies, what they're doing in the Netherlands, what they're doing in Germany.
The Waito process, which was also a contender for a while.
I've got a free day in the Netherlands next month.
Are they in Amsterdam?
Yeah, and they're pursuing... Maybe I'll go there.
Yeah.
Talk to Ken about what's happening in the Netherlands, because they had a number of scientists still interested in using the technology over there.
The Swiss were fooling around with the process for a while.
The bookkeeper seems to be working.
We're in the process of renegotiating our contract with them, so I don't know where we are at the moment, because we have to be concerned about, you know, cost per item, obviously.
What is your cost per item?
I think it's ten to twelve dollars.
Ken can tell you.
It's not cheap.
No, it isn't.
And obviously you must have a fixed budget.
We have a fixed budget.
I mean, it's X number of million dollars at this point.
It's no year money.
But it was a long time in development, and it's only been in the last year and a half that we've actually begun deacidifying our collections as opposed to continually testing with test books or surplused material, that sort of thing.
So it's a pretty big deal, and we've been working on developing selection criteria.
Okay, you've got
You've got 14 million items in all of these subject areas.
What are you going to go after first?
The Librarian of Congress is certainly very interested in using the technology on the most important and most critical.
That's hard to define, but we have decided at least to begin with American material, and by American we mean American history, American social life and customs, political science,
legal materials.
We're experimenting currently with some Pulp Fiction paperback material, which I love.
I'm interested in that sort of thing.
And kind of developing some criteria.
The same way we would look at Civil War drawings.
What's the cost of doing it?
What's the cost of not doing it?
That kind of analysis.
So that we're making decisions.
Even if you make a decision not to, you're making a decision.
I want it to be that if we don't do something, it's a decision not to do it, because we've chosen to preserve something else more aggressively.
It's a constant cycle of kind of looking at it and reexamining it and being aware of what other solutions might come along that would provide a better, more powerful response than the one we're using.
The library's commitment is to printed books?
Yes, although the library is very interested in digital technology and up to this point has been interested in digital technology as an access medium, principally for American materials in the special collections, manuscripts, photographs, maps, those kinds of things.
We've done some printed book material on an experimental basis, but really with the digital technology it's been more special collections
for access purposes, but I see down the road digitizing for preservation purposes so that we don't have to do double handling.
I do, yeah.
And they're working on that here?
I think we are not the only ones working on it.
Well, Cornell, of course.
Well, in fact, we're about to do a project with them after October 1, our new fiscal year.
We are pursuing a joint endeavor to look at
19th century book material and look at their strategies for preserving slash digitizing versus ours.
And I think moving toward a matrix and decision tools that people can use.
Well, if you have this material type, you should scan at this level, you know, with this kind of equipment and that sort of thing.
So we're doing an R&D project with them.
I mean, I spent two days up there, and that's a year ago.
I mean, God only knows what they've done.
Yeah, I mean, they were out in front of everybody.
You know, she's terrific.
She's unbelievable.
Yeah, she's great.
She has an answer for everything.
And I mean this in a very admirable way.
No, she's good.
I've worked with her on a couple of other, you know, committees in the field, and so we're doing this project with her and her staff.
We're also interested in the whole area of digitizing of audio collections.
We've been doing a lot of work there.
But to get back to your original question, yes, we are still interested in the printed text.
We're also interested in exploring other preservation technologies, and we consider digital technology among them.
Yeah, something Dr. Billington pointed out in an interview with him last year when I was here.
This is still
Well, the British Library does collect the world, too, but, you know, this institution does actively collect the world.
Yes, it does.
120 countries, you actually have people out there, agents, you know, scouring for material.
Yes, we do.
And, you know, that is unique, I think.
The British Library does similar things, but not on a scale.
I've been to the French Library, and their focus is
is France, as well it should be.
But I think that point is worth repeating.
It's not just preserving American culture and the American heritage, et cetera, et cetera.
No, it's also the influence on the American experience.
I think that that really was crystallized
under the leadership of Archibald MacLeish, who was Librarian of Congress from, oh God, 1939 to 1943 or something like that.
He's going to have a permanent role in my book.
Well, he was phenomenal.
I mean, and much of the foundation on which the Library of Congress rests, you know, the Library of Congress in mid-century forward, is based on his ideas and principles and precepts.
I mean, he's a remarkable person.
But certainly, one of his areas of interest was the international collecting and how important that was to, you know, understanding ourselves through understanding others.
So, I mean, the Hispanic Foundation, which became the Hispanic Division, was established under him.
I'll come get you.
Want to just sit with Ted?
Okay.
Maybe two-thirds of our collections are foreign language materials.
I mean, it's a huge, huge percentage, and we're still actively collecting.
We have overseas offices in Cairo and the Far East and Delhi.
You actually have agents over there, and you do swaps with people.
We do swaps.
We have overseas microfilming programs so that we can bring the material here in microfilm already so that we're not dealing with certain kinds of poor paper and that sort of thing.
The one area that I haven't been able to have something resolve for me is, you know, how can you guarantee the migration of digitized material?
I mean, we know microfilm, we know paper, but we really don't know.
And the fellow at the French Library told me it does deteriorate.
Right.
No, it does.
And Carl, when you meet with him tomorrow, Carl Fleischauer, can talk to you a little bit about
what the library is envisioning in terms of storage and migration and data refreshing and all that sort of thing.
I mean, it's a whole other critical part of the puzzle.
And the scanning is the easy part.
The scanning and the describing is the easy fun part.
maintaining it and storing it and being able to retrieve it five years from now.
That's the challenge.
Well, there I was at Cornell, and they were saying, well, that's what I said.
It's zeros and ones.
Everything is zeros and ones.
That doesn't change.
However, you know, the systems might change.
And I said, you know, that's very interesting.
But I'll bet right here as we speak on this campus there are thousands of perforated cards
that nobody has a clue as to what's in them and how to see what's on them, because nobody ever bothered to make sure that the migration... That's right.
Are you familiar with a report that the then-named Commission on Preservation and Access and the Research Library Groups produced on that topic?
No.
They had a task force two years ago
Oh, I think I saw something.
The archiving of digital information.
Yeah, yeah.
That's a useful report to get a hold of.
If you call the commission, I'm sure they would give you one.
I have one here.
It's a commission?
Commission on Preservation and Access has just renamed itself to the Council on Library and Information Resources.
Council?
Yeah, I'll give you one.
Do you remember the Council on Libraries?
It's been around for a while.
It spun off a preservation program about ten years ago called the Commission on Preservation and Asset.
And then last year to leverage.
So she's the president.
a provisional report on the internet, which I just found scanning one.
I copied it out, but I don't think it was the final one.
Yeah, this is it.
I just have it now.
Oh, you've got it.
I'm so glad they asked me to come down and sign.
I can have it?
Yes.
This is great.
I will cite all this stuff.
If you look at General Madness,
I put it all in there, all on the record.
I like to think that it's a resource.
Well, it is a resource, and she's just a good person to be aware of because her organization thinks about this issue a lot.
And she provides program support to all libraries, either through her publications programs or getting grants.
to support actual digitizing of collections.
She's also, though, supportive of sort of the more traditional preservation activities, and she's just a person that you should be aware of.
I think so.
Yeah, excellent.
for email addresses here, too.
That's good.
You've got a thing coming up at 2.
Well, actually, I was... Yes, I do.
And what I was going to do is turn you over to my assistant for preservation so that you could spend the afternoon talking to Mr. Harris and seeing the Rare Book Lab.
Okay, Harris?
Ken Harris.
He's for deacidification.
Okay.
If Dr. Shahani is in, then I'm sure that he'll... Dr. S?
Chandru.
C-H-A-N-D-R-U...
Shahani, S-H-A-H-A-N-I.
His specialty is?
His specialty, he's a research chemist.
Okay.
And his specialty is paper chemistry and solutions for deterioration.
Okay, excellent.
His career began, well, when it began, but he was at the National Archives and he came here probably fifteen years ago and was very instrumental in
bringing the bookkeeper endeavor to life.
And that's your program or that's something that was developed out there?
That's Mr. Spatz's.
Yeah, that's Mr. Spatz's process.
Oh, that's the fellow that was in the process.
Yeah, he's the CEO.
Right.
I can't remember.
He's a caricature.
He's in Ohio, I think.
No, Pennsylvania.
Grandvary Heights.
Somewhere outside of Pittsburgh.
I'm trying to go see him.
Okay, this is so serendipitous what I'm doing.
It sounds interesting to me.
Well, Ken can certainly give you some insight into that.
So I thought you could also look at the Rare Book Conservation Lab and talk with some conservators down there.
And you mentioned something about the National Digital Library.
Right.
Tomorrow morning at 9.30, if you'll come back here, Carl's Life Shower,
is going to greet you here, and then you go off with him.
S-L-E-I-S-H-A-U-R.
I think there's a C in there someplace.
I'll get this card.
So I know.
And then after that, and this is up to you, if you want to also hear about what we're doing with collection security and
off-site storage planning.
Oh, absolutely.
I've arranged for a meeting at 11 with the manager of that project.
That would be great.
Okay, so I thought... I don't have to be downtown until 1.
Okay, so I thought what could happen is Carl could bring you back up to this suite at 11, and then Steve Herman could come get you, and you could go off and see the stacks and all that kind of junk.
That's great.
Okay, well, I hope it's, you know, what you're after.
This is what I'm doing.
I'm sorry, we're talking about... When we pull off superseded editions, for example, and you think, well...
There was one case I'm aware of where it was a literary anthology that had been published over a number of years, and we were pulling off the superseded editions, keeping only one copy.
And then we had the recommending officer for that area come and look at it to make sure that that's okay.
And he made the decision to keep two copies of one of the superseded editions because the preface had been written by
a very important person in the field of American letters at that time.
So I wouldn't have known that, and the person doing the work wouldn't have known it, but the subject specialist did.
So you have to have that collaboration in order to make the kind of informed decision.
So Steve can tell you a lot about the inventory.
Steve Herman is the 11 o'clock appointment.
So this afternoon it's Ken and Chandru if he's hobbled in because he fractured his foot, and the Rare Book Lab.
And then tomorrow it's Carl and Steve.
But you would meet again up here.
And then if you have a second, I wanted to show you the selection office.
Okay, this is the selection office.
Yes, this is like copyright deposit material.
These are little bathtub books that kids take into the... Bathtub books, right.
And it was published with a copyright notice.
One with a flashlight, yep.
So you have Mickey Mouse, knife and fork and book set.
Pop-up books.
You have a little flashlight here and a book.
You have a puzzle book.
Here's a rubber stamp plus book.
These are all things that come in under copyright deposit.
And then we figure out whether we're going to import a collection.
The selection room.
Right.
Kind of a...
A euphemism, isn't it, for where life and death decisions are made?
In some respects, yeah.
And she's got this great collection of pop-up books.
And they're great.
They're probably not going to stay in the collection, but so I don't want to keep them because they're so nice.
Right, exactly.
And look, actually, you'd be amazed at how collectible some of these things are.
Oh, I know, I know.
I try not to think about it because then I'll want to start collecting it myself.
Yeah, I mean, there's a fear here.
And look at this.
So these are things that people are culling.
Right.
What's amazing is the variety of things.
You're never going to see anything like this in Widener.
Oh, no.
You know, foreign publications, periodicals, children's books, games, all the stories.
Reports, children's books.
You know, and look, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16.
Is Lolita around?
Could you grab her, please?
If you want to talk to her for about five minutes, she is a wealth of information.
She's been here since, I think, 1966, and she knows everything there is to know about selection.
Hi.
This is Nicholas Bazbanes.
He wrote A Gentle Madness.
You probably read it, you know, being a bibliophile and all that.
But anyway.
I can't tell you anymore.
He's doing kind of a companion volume, and I was going on and on and on about the selection office, but I don't know anything about it compared to what you know about it.
Well, we're on the way out.
We're being reorganized as of Monday.
Well, not your function, maybe just your name.
Well, we're only going to be doing scripts and copywriting.
Oh, well, you can explain all the nuances.
But he saw the book, So You Want to Be a Librarian, that I removed from your truck.
Because I still intend to take photographs of it.
And so that got us off into the whole thing of collecting and selecting and all that.
So I thought the best person really to talk to would be you.
So if you've got five minutes, because he's supposed to go down to preservation.
Oh, good.
Five minutes.
Really five minutes.
And I'll go see that gentleman you just introduced to.
Yes, actually, I'm going to bring Meryl Lee back here, and she can hover in the doorway.
Okay, good.
And this was mine, too, so I won't be taking something else.
Yeah, I gave him my copy.
Okay, good.
All right.
But online, yeah.
Okay.
All right.
They are online.
Okay.
Thank you so much.
Well, I'm going to bring my sister in there.
She'll hover in the doorway and then take you down.
I hope I see you before.
Yes, well, I'll see you at 9.30 in the morning because you'll come and see me and I'll hand you off tomorrow.
All right.
Thanks very much.
I enjoyed it.
I'm just going to.